src/content/blog/open-source-story-map.md, before:

---
title: 'Opensource alternative of ESRI Story Map'
excerpt: Hi , As we all know how much we love Open Source and most of my posts are related to open source , today I am writing the open source alternatives I found and created for the ESRI Story Map . Nowadays story maps are popular specially due to their ease of use and people who love map and would absolutely thrilled to tell a story from it . 
publishDate: 'Dec 12 2024'
featureImage:
  src: 'https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3130132-dd4e-4d10-aaa7-1618eee6bb9e'
  alt: sample story map 
isFeatured: false
published: false
seo:
  image:
    src: 'https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3130132-dd4e-4d10-aaa7-1618eee6bb9e'
---
During one of my assignment , I wanted to create story map that is open , free to use and available to everybody . ESRI story maps are popular however ESRI being commercial provider and you need license or vendor locked to use their products . So hunt for open source alternatives begins. 

1) Story Map JS 


Blog Writting in Progress ..............

Commit message:

Add existing alternatives to open source story map blog

src/content/blog/open-source-story-map.md, after:

---
title: 'Opensource alternative of ESRI Story Map'
excerpt: Hi , As we all know how much we love Open Source and most of my posts are related to open source , today I am writing the open source alternatives I found and created for the ESRI Story Map . Nowadays story maps are popular specially due to their ease of use and people who love map and would absolutely thrilled to tell a story from it . 
publishDate: 'Dec 12 2024'
featureImage:
  src: 'https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3130132-dd4e-4d10-aaa7-1618eee6bb9e'
  alt: sample story map 
isFeatured: false
published: false
seo:
  image:
    src: 'https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3130132-dd4e-4d10-aaa7-1618eee6bb9e'
---
During one of my assignment , I wanted to create story map that is open , free to use and available to everybody . ESRI story maps are popular however ESRI being commercial provider and you need license or vendor locked to use their products . So hunt for open source alternatives begins. 

Existing Alternatives 

1) [Story Map JS](https://storymap.knightlab.com/)
2) [Maplibre- StoryMap](https://github.com/digidem/maplibre-storymap) 

I have developed my own version of story map in this website : https://kshitijrajsharma.github.io/ds-storymap/ 

Blog Writting in Progress ..............
